Section 4.2: Accounts
---------------------

M-RETS supports two Account types; Active Accounts and Retirement
Accounts. Users can transfer Certificates to specific Accounts manually
or automatically upon upload. Each Account has a unique identification
number, similar to a banking system. Users may attach aliases to
Accounts for ease of reference (e.g., by state, by product name, etc.).

### Section 4.2.1: Active Accounts

An Organization can have one or more Active Account(s). An Active
Account is the holding place for all active M-RETS Certificates. The
Active Account is like a cash checking Account. M-RETS Certificates in
Active Accounts are liquid and an Organization---depending on the
type---may be able to transfer, retire, or export the Certificates.

If the Account has a Generating Unit(s) associated with it, the Active
Account will be the first point of deposit for any M-RETS Certificates
created that are associated with the Generating Unit(s) ID number.

### Section 4.2.2: Deposits to the Active Account

There are four ways that M-RETS Certificates are deposited in an Active
Account.

1.  The Organization can transfer M-RETS Certificates into their Active
    Account from another of the Organization's Active Accounts.

2.  The Organization can accept a transfer of Certificates from another
    M-RETS Organization.

3.  The Certificates can be deposited into the Account by M-RETS based
    on verified generation data from a Generating Unit associated with
    the Active Account or through an adjustment approved by M-RETS in
    accordance with the Operating Procedures.

4.  The Certificates can be deposited by M-RETS through the import
    process. If the Organization has more than one Active Account, the
    Organization can specify in each case the Active Account in which
    they want the Certificates deposited.

### Section 4.2.3: Transfers from the Active Account

There are four ways to withdraw or remove M-RETS Certificates from an
Active Account:

1.  Transfer the M-RETS Certificates to another of one's own Accounts
    (e.g. retirement), or

2.  Transfer the M-RETS Certificates to multiple of one's own Accounts,
    or

3.  Transfer the M-RETS Certificates to the Active Account of another
    M-RETS Organization, or

4.  Export the M-RETS Certificates out of M-RETS to another compatible
    tracking system.

### Section 4.2.4: Functionality of an Active Account

In addition to being able to deposit and withdraw M-RETS Certificates
from the Active Account, Organizations may view and sort their
Certificates by a number of Certificate fields, generate reports about
their Account, create additional Active Accounts, and transfer active
M-RETS Certificates between Active Accounts.

### Section 4.2.5: Retirement Accounts

An Organization may establish multiple Retirement Accounts at their
discretion. A Retirement Account is a repository for M-RETS Certificates
that the Organization wants to designate as retired. An Organization may
want to retire Certificates for any number of reasons, including, but
not limited to demonstrating compliance with a renewable mandate,
retiring Certificates on behalf of green power customers, or making
claims about the air quality benefits of the renewable Certificates.
M-RETS Certificates in a Retirement Account are no longer transferable
to another party and serve as an electronic proof of retirement.

Once an M-RETS Certificate is retired to a Retirement Account, those
Certificates may not be transferred into any other Account, including
another Retirement Account (i.e. if an Organization has multiple
Retirement Accounts). The Retirement Account is effectively the last
resting place for an M-RETS Certificate.

### Section 4.2.6: Deposits to the Retirement Account

*See* Section 4.5.3: Retirement of Certificates

### Section 4.2.7: Functionality of the Retirement Account

Retirement Accounts exist to hold Certificates permanently removed from
circulation and serve as proof that the corresponding Certificates are
subject to a voluntary or compliance claim or otherwise removed from
circulation. Once an Organization completes the retirement, they cannot
later change the retirement reason. This prevents the Certificate from
being subject to a double claim. If, however, the Organization contacts
M-RETS in writing within 24-hours from the time the Organization
indicated the reason for retirement, M-RETS may grant a variance.

M-RETS will grant a variance within the 24-hour notice period when there
is no likelihood a Certificate was claimed to be retired for multiple
reasons and M-RETS does not suspect any nefarious intent or impropriety.
If M-RETS believes there is any chance of double counting, they shall
deny the request for a variance.

If an Organization notices an error in the selected retirement reason
outside the 24-hour window, the Organization may contact M-RETS
(<systemadmin@mrets.org>) in writing and ask that M-RETS grant [a
variance](https://www.mrets.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/Variance-Request-Form.docx).[^1]
M-RETS shall review all requests made outside of the 24-hour window and
may grant a variance if they determine that the request is made in good
faith and: that the Organization submitted their request for a variance
in writing within a reasonable amount of time after discovering the
error, that there is a legitimate reason for the change, and that there
is no likelihood a Certificate was claimed to be retired for multiple
reasons. M-RETS may submit the variance request---or send an email
outlining the circumstances---to a state or provincial regulator should
there be concern compliance with the variance request could result in
potential double counting.

### 

### Section 4.2.8: Account Status

M-RETS classifies Accounts with the following statuses: Open, Closed,
Archived, and Frozen.

#### Section 4.2.8.1: Open

An 'Open' status denotes the Account is ready to use and Users may
Transfer or Retire Certificates to this Account. This status applies to
both Active and Retirement Accounts.

#### 

#### Section 4.2.8.2: Closed

An Active Account can be set to a status of 'Closed' when no longer
needed. Before closing, the Account must contain zero Certificates.
Thus, the User must Transfer or Retire all Certificates from the Account
prior to closing. An Account with a 'Closed' status denotes the Account
can no longer accept Transfers. This status only applies to Active
Accounts.

#### Section 4.2.8.3: Archived

When a Retirement Account is no longer needed, it can be set to a status
of 'Archived'. An 'Archived' status denotes the Account cannot accept
further Retirements. However, Retired Certificates remain in an
'Archived' Account. This status only applies to Retirement Accounts.

#### Section 4.2.8.4: Frozen

When a Retirement Account is part of a Program that has closed, it is
set to a status of 'Frozen'. A 'Frozen' status denotes the Account
cannot accept further Retirements. However, Retired Certificates remain
in an 'Frozen' Account. This status only applies to Retirement Accounts.
