Table of Contents

#### [Section 1: Introduction](index.md#section-1-introduction-1)

#### [Section 2: Privacy and Security](index.md#section-2-privacy-and-security-1)

#### [Section 3: Establishing an M-RETS Organization](index.md#section-3-establishing-an-m-rets-organization-1)

##### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 3.1: Billing Information](index.md#section-31-billing-information-1)

##### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 3.2: Inactivating an Organization](index.md#section-32-inactivating-an-organization-1)

#### [Section 4: The Tracking System](fullsection4.1.md)

##### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.1: Users](section4.1.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.1.1: User Permissions](section4.1.1.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.1.2: Notification Settings](section4.1.2.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.1.4: Inactivating Users](section4.1.4.md)

##### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.2: Accounts](section4.2.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.2.1: Active Accounts](section4.2.1.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.2.2: Deposits to the Active Account](section4.2.2.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.2.3: Transfers from the Active Account](section4.2.3.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.2.4: Functionality of an Active Account](section4.2.4.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.2.5: Retirement Accounts](section4.2.5.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.2.6: Deposits to the Retirement Account](section4.2.6.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.2.7: Functionality of the Retirement Account](section4.2.7.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.2.8: Account Status](section4.2.8.md)

##### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.3: Generators](section4.3.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.3.1: Registration of a Generator](section4.3.1.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.3.2: Verification of Static Data Submitted During Generator Registration](section4.3.2)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.3.3: M-RETS Interaction with State Commissions and Certification of Facilities for State Programs](section4.3.3.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.3.4: Multi-Fuel Generators](scetion4.3.4.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.3.5: Multiple Units on a Single Meter](section4.3.5.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.3.6: Distributed Generation Aggregation](section4.3.6.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.3.7: Annual Review of Generators](section4.3.7.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.3.8: Changes to Static Data](section4.3.8.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.3.9: Generator Inactivation](section4.3.9.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.3.10: Generator Suspension](section4.3.10.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.3.11: Generator Termination](section4.3.11.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.3.12: Changing the Organization to which the Generator is Associated](section4.3.12.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.3.13: Assignment of Rights of Registration â€“ Designation of Responsible Party](section4.3.13.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.3.14: Termination of Rights of Registration](section4.3.14.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.3.15: Changing Rights of Registration](section4.3.15.md)

##### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.4: Generation](section4.4.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.4.1: Acceptable Format](section4.4.1.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.4.2: Uploading Time Restrictions](section4.4.2.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.4.3: Requirements of Data Reporting Entities (QREs)](section4.4.3.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.4.4: Measurement of Generation and Adjustments](section4.4.4.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.4.5: Changes to Issuances (Rollbacks and Prior Period Adjustments)](section4.4.5.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.4.6: Data Transmittal](section4.4.6.md)

##### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.5: Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs)](section4.5.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.5.1: Creation of Certificates](section4.5.1.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.5.2: Data Fields Carried on Each Certificate](section4.5.2.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.5.3: Retirement of Certificates](section4.5.3.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.5.4: Retirement Types](section4.5.4.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.5.5: Forced Retirement of Certificates](section4.5.5.md)

##### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.6: Transactions](section4.6.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.6.1: Transferring Certificates between Organizations](section4.6.1.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.6.2: Certificate Imports](section4.6.2.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.6.3: Automatic Recurring Transfers](section4.6.3.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.6.4: Irrevocable Automatic Recurring Transfers](section4.6.4.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.6.5: Export of Certificates](section4.6.5.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.6.6: Re-Import of Exported Certificates](section4.6.6.md)

##### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.7: Programs](section4.7.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.7.1: Establishing a Program](section4.7.1.md)

###### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.7.2: Participating in a Program](section.4.7.2.md)

##### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 4.8: API](section4.8.md)

#### [Section 5: Wisconsin RPS](section5.md)

##### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 5.1: WI Bankable](section5.1.md)

##### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 5.2: WI Non-Bankable](section5.2.md)
 
##### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Section 5.3: RRC Adjusted Quantity](section5.3.md)

#### [Section 6: Public Reports](section6.md)

#### [Section 7: Acknowledgements](section7.md)

#### [Appendix A: Generator Static Data Fields](appendixa.md)

#### [Appendix B: Fuel Type & Fuel Source](appendixb.md)

##### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Appendix B-1: Fuel Type List](appendixb1.md)

##### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Appendix B-2: Fuel Source List](appendixb2.md)

#### [Appendix C: Transfer Appendix](appendixc.md)

##### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Appendix C-1: Michigan Renewable Energy Certification System Imports](appendixc1.md)

##### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Appendix C-2: North Carolina Renewable Energy Tracking System Imports](appendixc2.md)

##### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Appendix C-3: North American Renewable Registry System Imports](appendixc3.md)

##### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Appendix C-4: Texas Renewable Energy Trading Program (ERCOT)](appendixc4.md)

#### [Appendix D: Glossary](appendixd.md)

# Section 1: Introduction

This document serves as a comprehensive introduction to the Midwest Renewable Energy Tracking System (M-RETS).  M-RETS staff organized this document to help lead Users through registration and use of the System.

M-RETS offers a comprehensive list of training documentation with detailed walkthroughs of features [here](https://help.mrets.org/). M-RETS also offers custom web-based training modules for Organizations. To request a training, please contact [systemadmin@mrets.org](mailto:systemadmin@mrets.org).

M-RETS staff were all involved with the creation and editing of these Operating Procedures. At the time of creation, M-RETS staff consisted of:

Benjamin Gerber, Executive Director

Tanya Gajewska, Chief Administrative Officer

Rosie Hoyem, Program Manager

Sean Darling, Technical Program Coordinator

John Malone, Senior Developer

# Section 2: Privacy and Security

Except where explicitly granted within the Operating Procedures, [Terms of Use](https://help.mrets.org/en/articles/1376725-terms-of-use), or by Separate Agreement, M-RETS holds all User information strictly confidential. However, M-RETS provides public reports that include aggregate data available through the public area of the M-RETS website. M-RETS requires comprehensive verification before any information is disclosed, except if the requesting party is identified as a State or Provincial Regulator. More information about confidentiality can be found in the M-RETS [Terms of Use, Section 11](https://help.mrets.org/en/articles/1376725-terms-of-use).

M-RETS requires Users create a secure password with a minimum of 12 characters. M-RETS expressly prohibits the sharing of User credentials. M-RETS requires every person that logs into the System to have their own separate User login credentials. M-RETS tracks the specific activities of each User through the unique User ID and password. Failure to adhere to these security recommendations and the [Terms of Use](https://help.mrets.org/en/articles/1376725-terms-of-use) can lead to loss of access to M-RETS.

# Section 3: Establishing an M-RETS Organization

Participation in M-RETS is voluntary, though some states or provinces may require participation in M-RETS for purposes of regulatory program compliance. Any party that registers with M-RETS and pays the applicable fees may establish an Organization in the System.

There is no limit to the number of separate Organizations a company or individual may establish. Registrants will provide basic Organization registration information, such as username, address, contact info, etc. to M-RETS through a secure webpage on M-RETS. The registrant must pay all required fees specific to the Organization type subject to the M-RETS [Terms of Use](https://help.mrets.org/en/articles/1376725-terms-of-use). An Organization in M-RETS will remain active until Inactivated (_See_Section 3.2: Inactivating an Organization).

M-RETS will check all Organization registration or modified existing Organization entries for completeness. An error message will flag mandatory fields not completed by the registrant.

Each Organization shall pay an annual Subscription Fee. A renewal fee will be due in the month of registration of each subsequent calendar year. The Subscription Fee will be based upon the type of Organization subscribed. Below is a visual representation of the subscription types with more detailed information. Please note that for billing purposes M-RETS will use the prices listed on the website.

If a subscriber fails to pay their annual Subscription Fee within ninety-days (90) of issuance, M-RETS shall close the Organizations access to the System. A User that wishes to reactivate an Organization that is closed due to failure to pay shall be required to pay the full annual Subscription Fee as well as an additional reactivation fee equal to 65% of the current Subscription Fee applicable to the closed Organization.

- **Micro-Generator Project Subscription: $50/year**
  - This type of Organization can register a total of up to 100 kW in nameplate capacity of renewable Generators and have Certificates issued to it for its Generators. A Micro-Generator Project can hold, transfer (only outgoing transfers), withdraw and retire Certificates. A Micro-Generator Project cannot receive transfers from other parties.

- **Small Generator Project Subscription: $125/year**
  - This type of Organization can register a total of up to 1.5 MW in total nameplate capacity of renewable Generators and have Certificates issued to it for its Generators. A Small Generator Project can hold, transfer (only outgoing transfers), withdraw and retire Certificates. A Small Generator Project cannot receive transfers from other parties.

- **Project Subscription: $550/year**
  - This type of Organization can register one or more renewable Generators and have Certificates issued to it for its Generators. A Project can hold, transfer (only outgoing transfers), withdraw, and retire Certificates. This type of Organization cannot receive transfers from other parties.

- **General Subscription: $2,200/year**
  - This type of Organization can hold, transfer (outgoing and incoming), and retire Certificates as well as register and maintain Generators and have Certificates issued to it for its Generators. This Organization type is the only type that can retire Certificates for compliance with any of the State RPS programs utilizing MRETS.

- **Retail Purchaser Subscription: $1,100/year**
  - This type of Organization is for retail purchasers of Certificates. A Retail Purchaser can hold, accept incoming transfers, and retire Certificates. They can also register and maintain Generators that are under 1 MW in capacity and have Certificates issued in their Organization. Retail Purchasers cannot make outgoing transfers.

- **Qualified Reporting Entity (QRE): No Fee**
  - Qualified Reporting Entity is the control area operator, interconnecting utility, scheduling coordinator, or an independent third-party meter reader and is not affiliated with the owner of the Generator for which the entity is reporting; or the control area operator or interconnecting utility and that is affiliated with the Generator owner, but having sufficient segregation of duties such that the person performing the QRE duties does not have access to transfer or retire Certificates created for that Generator. A QRE must enter into an agreement with M-RETS describing the terms and conditions under which the QRE agrees to conduct business with M-RETS and must report data in accordance with the standards set forth in these Operating Procedures.

- **Program Administrator/Government Regulator: No Fee**
  - State regulators, including but not limited to public utility commission and public service commission staff and voluntary market program administrators (e.g. Green-e) may be granted a Program Administrator/Government Regulator Organization. To find out if an Organization qualifies please contact M-RETS at [systemadmin@mrets.org](mailto:systemadmin@mrets.org).

## Section 3.1: Billing Information

It is the Organization&#39;s responsibility to make sure billing info is up to date and correct. Billing Information can be changed at any time. Information on how to add or update billing contact information can be found [here](https://help.mrets.org/within-the-system/billing/updateadd-your-billing-contact-information).

Organization Info holds Billing Information where Users can Access Organization Invoices. Information on how to view Invoices can be found [here](https://help.mrets.org/within-the-system/billing/view-the-status-of-current-and-past-invoices).

M-RETS accepts payment in the form of checks, wire transfers, or ACH transfers. Organizations must send requests for Vendor Authorization Forms and W-9s and/or billing questions to Tanya Gajewska at [tanya@mrets.org](mailto:tanya@mrets.org).

Checks may be mailed to:

Midwest Renewable Energy Tracking System, Inc.

PO Box 856556

Minneapolis MN 55485-6556

(please always include the dash and 6556 after the zip code)

Wire transfers or ACH transfers may be routed to:

Midwest Renewable Energy Tracking System, Inc.

Bremer Bank

225 6th Street South Suite 200

Minneapolis, MN 55402

USA

(Remittance Address and Routing Number can be found on the invoice)

1. Fees must be paid in US dollars.
2. Please include invoice number, Organization name, and M-RETS on check payments.
3. Please include invoice number(s) on wire transfer.
4. Payments may be made via wire transfer or check.
5. Please include currency and/or wire fees to the amount paid. The generated invoice does not include any wiring fees levied by the bank.

Note: payments may take up to 2 business days to be reflected in the Organization.

## Section 3.2: Inactivating an Organization

A User with the appropriate permissions may begin the Organization Inactivation procedure by notifying M-RETS in writing from the email associated with a User that has the proper permission level.  The User shall furnish the data that M-RETS should place the Organization into Inactive status. Any Generator assigned to the Organization will become Inactive and may not produce any further Certificates. Moreover, once Inactive Users from the Organization may not access any remaining Certificates or pending Transactions.

## Section 4.1: Users

Users may create additional Users within their Organization by accessing the Organization information tab within the System.

M-RETS expressly prohibits the sharing of User credentials. M-RETS requires every person that logs into the System to have their own separate User login credentials. M-RETS tracks the specific activities of each User through the unique User ID and password.

More information about confidentiality can be found in the [M-RETS Terms of Use.](https://help.mrets.org/en/articles/1376725-terms-of-use)

### Section 4.1.1: User Permissions

Every User in M-RETS has customizable permissions. Users can be set as Manage, Read Only, or No Access. Only a User with Manage permissions for the Organization can change permissions. The abilities of each level are as follows:

- Manage: Ability to view and edit the topic
- Read Only: Ability to solely view the topic
- No Access: Inability to view or edit the topic

#### Section 4.1.1.1: Organization Permission

In M-RETS, &#39;Organization&#39; refers to the Organization Information, Billing Contact Information, and User List.

#### Section 4.1.1.2: Transactions Permission

In M-RETS, &#39;Transactions&#39; refers to incoming and outgoing transfers of Certificates. A User with &#39;Manage&#39; permissions will be able to transfer as well as accept incoming transfers of Certificates.

#### Section 4.1.1.3: Generators Permission

In M-RETS, &#39;Generators&#39; refers to Projects and Generators. A User with &#39;Manage&#39; permission will be able to create new Generators and edit current Generators.

#### Section 4.1.1.4: Billing Permission

In M-RETS, &#39;Billing&#39; refers to the invoicing System. A User with &#39;Manage&#39; permissions will be able to view and save invoice details.

#### Section 4.1.1.5: API Permission

In M-RETS, &#39;API&#39; refers to the application programming interface. Any User that intends to connect and use our API will need Manage permissions.

#### Section 4.1.1.6: Generation Permission

In M-RETS, &#39;Generation&#39; refers to the uploading and issuance of Certificates. A User with &#39;Manage&#39; permissions will be able to upload MWh information for issuance.

### Section 4.1.2: Notification Settings

M-RETS allows Users to opt into email notifications when certain changes occur to their Organization. By default, M-RETS disables email notifications. M-RETS encourages Users to enable email notifications in their settings. An informational walk-through on notification settings is on the [integrated help system.](https://help.mrets.org/en/articles/2034693-email-notifications)

There are three notification settings:

1. Transfers
2. Issuances
3. Retirements

Section 4.1.3: Notification Categories

#### Section 4.1.3.1: Transfers

 This setting automatically emails Users upon initiation and completion of a transfer.

Example:

#### Section 4.1.3.2: Issuance

This setting emails Users upon generation data upload.

Example:

#### Section 4.1.3.3: Retirements

This setting emails Users when Certificates are retired.

Example:

### Section 4.1.4: Inactivating Users

It is the Organization&#39;s responsibility to make sure the User list is current. This includes inactivating Users when they leave the company or no longer require access. This also includes adding Users to replace Users that have left the Organization. Failure to do this can lead to significant delays in accessing an Organization.

In order to reinstate access to M-RETS, the Organization shall be required to present specific evidence that the managing employee is no longer with the Organization and the Organization maintains no other way to reset the password (e.g. accessing the former employee&#39;s email and utilizing the password reset function). M-RETS reserves the right to set the level of specific evidence, including but not limited to affidavits from executives maintaining the circumstances surrounding the departure of the employee and failure to transfer access to another User within the Organization.

Organizations may inactivate a User at any time for any reason. M-RETS may inactivate a User for failure to adhere to the Operating Procedures or Terms of Use.

Section 4.2: Accounts
---------------------

M-RETS supports two Account types; Active Accounts and Retirement
Accounts. Users can transfer Certificates to specific Accounts manually
or automatically upon upload. Each Account has a unique identification
number, similar to a banking system. Users may attach aliases to
Accounts for ease of reference (e.g., by state, by product name, etc.).

### Section 4.2.1: Active Accounts

An Organization can have one or more Active Account(s). An Active
Account is the holding place for all active M-RETS Certificates. The
Active Account is like a cash checking Account. M-RETS Certificates in
Active Accounts are liquid and an Organization---depending on the
type---may be able to transfer, retire, or export the Certificates.

If the Account has a Generating Unit(s) associated with it, the Active
Account will be the first point of deposit for any M-RETS Certificates
created that are associated with the Generating Unit(s) ID number.

### Section 4.2.2: Deposits to the Active Account

There are four ways that M-RETS Certificates are deposited in an Active
Account.

1.  The Organization can transfer M-RETS Certificates into their Active
    Account from another of the Organization's Active Accounts.

2.  The Organization can accept a transfer of Certificates from another
    M-RETS Organization.

3.  The Certificates can be deposited into the Account by M-RETS based
    on verified generation data from a Generating Unit associated with
    the Active Account or through an adjustment approved by M-RETS in
    accordance with the Operating Procedures.

4.  The Certificates can be deposited by M-RETS through the import
    process. If the Organization has more than one Active Account, the
    Organization can specify in each case the Active Account in which
    they want the Certificates deposited.

### Section 4.2.3: Transfers from the Active Account

There are four ways to withdraw or remove M-RETS Certificates from an
Active Account:

1.  Transfer the M-RETS Certificates to another of one's own Accounts
    (e.g. retirement), or

2.  Transfer the M-RETS Certificates to multiple of one's own Accounts,
    or

3.  Transfer the M-RETS Certificates to the Active Account of another
    M-RETS Organization, or

4.  Export the M-RETS Certificates out of M-RETS to another compatible
    tracking system.

### Section 4.2.4: Functionality of an Active Account

In addition to being able to deposit and withdraw M-RETS Certificates
from the Active Account, Organizations may view and sort their
Certificates by a number of Certificate fields, generate reports about
their Account, create additional Active Accounts, and transfer active
M-RETS Certificates between Active Accounts.

### Section 4.2.5: Retirement Accounts

An Organization may establish multiple Retirement Accounts at their
discretion. A Retirement Account is a repository for M-RETS Certificates
that the Organization wants to designate as retired. An Organization may
want to retire Certificates for any number of reasons, including, but
not limited to demonstrating compliance with a renewable mandate,
retiring Certificates on behalf of green power customers, or making
claims about the air quality benefits of the renewable Certificates.
M-RETS Certificates in a Retirement Account are no longer transferable
to another party and serve as an electronic proof of retirement.

Once an M-RETS Certificate is retired to a Retirement Account, those
Certificates may not be transferred into any other Account, including
another Retirement Account (i.e. if an Organization has multiple
Retirement Accounts). The Retirement Account is effectively the last
resting place for an M-RETS Certificate.

### Section 4.2.6: Deposits to the Retirement Account

*See* Section 4.5.3: Retirement of Certificates

### Section 4.2.7: Functionality of the Retirement Account

Retirement Accounts exist to hold Certificates permanently removed from
circulation and serve as proof that the corresponding Certificates are
subject to a voluntary or compliance claim or otherwise removed from
circulation. Once an Organization completes the retirement, they cannot
later change the retirement reason. This prevents the Certificate from
being subject to a double claim. If, however, the Organization contacts
M-RETS in writing within 24-hours from the time the Organization
indicated the reason for retirement, M-RETS may grant a variance.

M-RETS will grant a variance within the 24-hour notice period when there
is no likelihood a Certificate was claimed to be retired for multiple
reasons and M-RETS does not suspect any nefarious intent or impropriety.
If M-RETS believes there is any chance of double counting, they shall
deny the request for a variance.

If an Organization notices an error in the selected retirement reason
outside the 24-hour window, the Organization may contact M-RETS
(<systemadmin@mrets.org>) in writing and ask that M-RETS grant [a
variance](https://www.mrets.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/Variance-Request-Form.docx).[^1]
M-RETS shall review all requests made outside of the 24-hour window and
may grant a variance if they determine that the request is made in good
faith and: that the Organization submitted their request for a variance
in writing within a reasonable amount of time after discovering the
error, that there is a legitimate reason for the change, and that there
is no likelihood a Certificate was claimed to be retired for multiple
reasons. M-RETS may submit the variance request---or send an email
outlining the circumstances---to a state or provincial regulator should
there be concern compliance with the variance request could result in
potential double counting.

### 

### Section 4.2.8: Account Status

M-RETS classifies Accounts with the following statuses: Open, Closed,
Archived, and Frozen.

#### Section 4.2.8.1: Open

An 'Open' status denotes the Account is ready to use and Users may
Transfer or Retire Certificates to this Account. This status applies to
both Active and Retirement Accounts.

#### 

#### Section 4.2.8.2: Closed

An Active Account can be set to a status of 'Closed' when no longer
needed. Before closing, the Account must contain zero Certificates.
Thus, the User must Transfer or Retire all Certificates from the Account
prior to closing. An Account with a 'Closed' status denotes the Account
can no longer accept Transfers. This status only applies to Active
Accounts.

#### Section 4.2.8.3: Archived

When a Retirement Account is no longer needed, it can be set to a status
of 'Archived'. An 'Archived' status denotes the Account cannot accept
further Retirements. However, Retired Certificates remain in an
'Archived' Account. This status only applies to Retirement Accounts.

#### Section 4.2.8.4: Frozen

When a Retirement Account is part of a Program that has closed, it is
set to a status of 'Frozen'. A 'Frozen' status denotes the Account
cannot accept further Retirements. However, Retired Certificates remain
in an 'Frozen' Account. This status only applies to Retirement Accounts.
