Section 4.3: Generators
-----------------------

M-RETS defines renewable generation as energy generated by a facility
that any state, province, or territory participating in M-RETS considers
renewable by law or policy. M-RETS issues one electronic Certificate for
each MWh of renewable energy produced by Generators registered and
approved in M-RETS. To ensure that double-counting does not occur,
Generators participating in M-RETS must report 100% of their generation
output in M-RETS. M-RETS maintains a list of state definitions of
renewable energy located in the M-RETS compliance footprint
[here](https://www.mrets.org/resources/statutes/).

Any Generator that delivers energy into North America may register in
M-RETS. Other states, provinces, territories, countries or Generators
outside of North America may request to use M-RETS subject to the
approval of the M-RETS Board. In addition, M-RETS will track other
generation forms (e.g. nuclear generation) or other environmental
attributes. Requests to add a generator outside North America or to
track other generation forms should be made in writing to the M-RETS
System Administrator (<systemadmin@mrets.org>) and M-RETS leadership
listed [here](https://www.mrets.org/m-rets-staff/).

M-RETS may issue Certificates for any energy production serving a load
that the grid would otherwise serve if not for the Generator. M-RETS
will not create Certificates for generation supplying station
service/parasitic load.

For customer-sited distributed Generators, the original data source for
reporting total energy production must be from metering at the AC output
of an inverter, adjusted to reflect the energy delivered into either the
transmission or distribution grid. In the absence of a meter measuring
production as described above (i.e. if there is no meter at the
inverter), the original data source for reporting total energy
production must be from metering placed to measure only the hourly
positive generation flowing to the distribution system, adjusted to
reflect the energy delivered into either the transmission or
distribution grid. Test energy is not treated differently and must also
be delivered to the transmission or distribution grid.

M-RETS defines a Generator as an electric generating facility consisting
of one or more Generating Units with the same essential generation
characteristics with a single meter that measures the output.

### Section 4.3.1: Registration of a Generator

All Generator Owners must first establish an Organization subscription
and then register the Generating Unit(s) with M-RETS. As part of the
Generator Registration Agreement, the User must attest that this Unit is
not registered in any other Registry. Generating Unit(s) that are
jointly owned must privately appoint a single Organization where the
Generator will reside.

To register the Generating Unit(s), the owner of the Generating Unit or
the Responsible Party must submit to M-RETS the following:

1.  A completed on-line Generator registration form containing
    information related to the characteristics of the Generating Unit
    and associated meter.

2.  If applicable: A completed [Schedule A from the M-RETS Terms of Use
    outlining the Generator Owner's Designation of Responsible
    Party](https://www.mrets.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/MRETS-Schedule-A-Modified-12-28-2017.pdf).

3.  Any documentation requested by M-RETS to verify the registration
    information

    a.  It is helpful for Generators to include a Generator
        interconnection agreement that helps support the registration
        information. *See* Acceptable Documentation in Appendix A:
        Generator Static Data Fields.

    b.  Providing a Generators EIA Entity ID which is an official,
        unique identification numbers assigned by EIA can expedite the
        approval process. The EIA Entity ID is required for all
        Generators over 1 MW in the United States and may be found by
        accessing the report
        [here](https://www.eia.gov/electricity/data/eia860M/).

4.  If this Generator will use MISO as the reporting entity, please fill
    out and upload [this
    form](https://www.mrets.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/M-RETS-MISO-DATA-RELEASE-2-9-2018213.pdf)
    in the Generator documents. It is important that the form reflects
    the correct MISO node.

The Generator registration process will include both mandatory and
optional data entry and M-RETS shall verify all data prior to making a
Generator Active.

*NOTE: Registration with M-RETS does not imply or confer acceptance into
or eligibility for any state's Renewable Portfolio Standard program.*

*A Visual Guide to the Generator Registration Process*

#### Section 4.3.1.1: Static Data in M-RETS

Static data fields describe the physical attributes of the Generating
Unit. Users provide this data to M-RETS during the Generator
registration process, and the subsequent update processes described
below.

M-RETS shall verify all static data before including it in the System.
Appendix A: Generator Static Data Fields lists the method of
verification for each data field. In addition, M-RETS may conduct site
visits to further verify the information as needed.

### 

### Section 4.3.2: Verification of Static Data Submitted During Generator Registration

Upon completion of the Generator registration process, the User
represents and warrants to M-RETS that all information for this
Generator shall be true, complete, and correct to the best of its
knowledge, information, and belief. Any changes after submission may
result in a delay in the approval process. The Generator approval
process begins once the Generator is submitted from a draft status.

In the event data submitted is inaccurate or if there is a discrepancy
between the information submitted during the on-line registration
process and the materials provided to verify the information, M-RETS
will notify the registrant of the issue. A process of either correcting
the data in the online registration form, withdrawing the registration,
or providing proof that the information on the registration form is
correct will ensue between M-RETS and the registrant until M-RETS is
satisfied that the information provided meets M-RETS approval standards.

### Section 4.3.3: M-RETS Interaction with State Commissions and Certification of Facilities for State Programs

M-RETS shall be responsible for verifying any information submitted to
M-RETS during the Generating Unit Registration Process. Each individual
state will be responsible for determining whether a Generating Unit
qualifies for a state program. The State Commissions may use the
information collected and verified by M-RETS to conduct this
determination.

State regulatory commissions have the option of asking M-RETS to send
them an electronic version of the registration information for all
Generating Units in their jurisdiction or claiming to be eligible for
any state programs. If the state commission has exercised this option,
M-RETS will send an electronic message to the designated contact at the
state commission each time M-RETS registers and verifies such a
Generating Unit. The state commissions reserve the right to conduct site
visits or request additional information from a Generator to determine
whether the facility meets all the requirements.

### Section 4.3.4: Multi-Fuel Generators

A multi-fuel Generator is one that can produce energy using more than
one fuel type, where the quantity of each of the fuels used is greater
than 1% annually on a total heat input basis, excluding fuels used for
start-up. A multi-fuel Generator can be a Generating Unit that uses a
renewable fuel with a fossil fuel or one that uses multiple types of
renewable fuels. Such facilities must register with M-RETS as a
multi-fuel Generator. If the Generator Owner or M-RETS cannot measure or
calculate the relative quantities of electricity production from each
fuel, the Generator is not eligible to register as a multi-fuel
Generating Unit in M-RETS.

M-RETS only creates Certificates for renewable fuel types. Each
Certificate issued for a multi-fuel Generating Unit will reflect only
one fuel source. The total number of Certificates issued for a fuel type
in a reporting period will be proportional to the electric output from
that fuel type for that reporting period.

The Generator or its owning Organization must maintain supporting
documentation related to the derivation of the proportion of electric
output per fuel type for each month at the generation facility for a
minimum of two years from the date of submission to M-RETS. M-RETS may
require copies of such calculations and supporting documentation will be
subject to audit by M-RETS, state regulators, or their agents. M-RETS
shall treat as Confidential Information all data submitted to or audited
by M-RETS subject to the requirements of this paragraph not contained in
reports available to the public.

#### 

#### Section 4.3.4.1: Allocating Output for Each Fuel Source

For purposes of creating M-RETS Certificates reflecting the fuel source
mix of multi-fuel Generating Units, the proportion of Certificates
attributable to each fuel source shall be determined consistent with the
following rule. For renewable fuels co-fired with fossil fuels or using
fossil fuels for startup or supplemental firing: In each month, the
Certificates for each fuel in such multi-fuel Generating Units will be
created in proportion to the ratio of the net heat content of each fuel
consumed to the net heat content of all fuel consumed in that month,
adjusted to reflect differential heat rates for different fuels, if
applicable.

Upon registration, all multi-fuel Generators must submit to M-RETS a
report prepared by a licensed professional engineer containing
documentation for measuring and verifying the quantities of each fuel
type, the method of determining the net heat content and moisture
content of each fuel source, and the heat rate of the Generator, if
applicable. M-RETS will share this documentation with state or
provincial regulators upon request of the regulator.

### Section 4.3.5: Multiple Units on a Single Meter

Generating Units register on a meter basis. In the case where there is
more than one Generating Unit associated with a single meter, the
Generator Owner or Responsible Party can register more than one
Generating Units under one registration if, and only if, all the
Generating Units have the same essential generation characteristics.

If the Generating Units associated with a single meter do not have the
exact same essential generation characteristics, the Generator Owner or
Responsible Party has two choices---they can either install a new
meter(s) such that all Generating Units associated with a single meter
have the same generation characteristics, or they can designate a
percentage allocation on an MWh output basis for each different
Generating Unit(s) associated with the meter.

> *Example: If there are two Generating Units (a biomass direct
> combustion Generating Unit and a biomass gasification unit and
> technology type is considered an essential characteristic) associated
> with one meter, the registrant would indicate that X% of the output as
> measured at the meter comes from the direct combustion unit and Y%
> comes from the gasification unit.*

### Section 4.3.6: Distributed Generation Aggregation

For small (\<1 MW) Generating Units, M-RETS will allow aggregation
("Distributed Generation Aggregation") of Units not metered together and
which do not share the same location, but which are located within the
same state or province, and which otherwise share the same essential
generation characteristics identified in Appendix B: Fuel Type & Fuel
Source.

Aggregated Generators must meet the following criteria:

a.  The M-RETS State/Province programs allows for aggregation if an
    eligibility is sought; and

b.  The Aggregated Units do not exceed a total nameplate capacity of 1
    MW.

M-RETS may require documentation to verify each Aggregated Unit and
generation data including proof of the right to registration and proof
that each unit is within acceptable proximity to the other units.

### Section 4.3.7: Annual Review of Generators

M-RETS requires Users to update/review Generators once a year during the
month of January to ensure correct information. M-RETS will email Users
with the requisite permissions as well as prompt them within the System
to complete the review.

It is the User's requirement to confirm that they represent and warrant
to M-RETS that all information for their Generator shall be true,
complete, and correct to the best of their knowledge, information, and
belief.

M-RETS requires that Organizations review and accept all Generator data
by January 31^st^. Failure to complete the annual review for each
Generator in an Organization by January 31^st^ each year will result in
the loss of access to the Organization until a User with proper
permissions reviews and confirms all of the data for every Generator in
the Organization.

### Section 4.3.8: Changes to Static Data

In addition to the annual update, Users must notify M-RETS of the
following that have the effect of changing static data tracked by M-RETS
within 30 calendar days of the effective date and/or knowledge of the
change:

a.  A change in fuel type at a Generating Unit, and the date on which
    the change occurred.

b.  A change in Generating Unit ownership (*See* Section 4.3.12:
    Changing the Organization to which the Generator is Associated).

c.  A change to Generator eligibility for any programs or certification
    tracked by M-RETS. Before M-RETS adds an eligibility to a Generator,
    M-RETS will verify the Generator meets the states eligibility
    requirements. In the case where a state requires preapproval, M-RETS
    will require the appropriate documentation and reserves the right to
    verify this information with the appropriate state, province or
    independent certifier. A User may remove an eligibility at any time.

d.  A change to any of the "essential generating characteristics".

M-RETS can remove Generators for cause, including willful
misrepresentation of static data. M-RETS may rely on the M-RETS dispute
resolution process (*See* [M-RETS Terms of
Use](https://help.mrets.org/en/articles/1376725-terms-of-use)) to
address such situations, and M-RETS will accept no liability for
Generator misrepresentations. M-RETS reserves the right to take
appropriate action in consultation with the M-RETS Board to respond to
willful misrepresentation of static data, including but not limited to
withholding issuing Certificates, Inactivating an Organization
associated with a particular Generating Unit, or withholding
participation in M-RETS for Generating Units that have willfully
misrepresented static data.

### Section 4.3.9: Generator Inactivation

To ensure data integrity, unused or retired Generators are set to an
'Inactive' status. Only M-RETS can Inactivate a Generator. Setting a
Generator to Inactive prevents any subsequent generation uploads and
Certificate creation by the Generator. Inactivating a Generator does not
affect previously issued Certificates.

### Section 4.3.10: Generator Suspension

If M-RETS has cause to suspend the Generating Unit's participation in
M-RETS, Certificate production will cease until M-RETS approves a
re-instatement of the Generator. Suspension of a Generator does not
affect Certificates previously issued in accordance with the M-RETS
Terms of Use and Operating Procedures.

### Section 4.3.11: Generator Termination

If M-RETS has cause to permanently terminate the Generating Unit's
participation in M-RETS, M-RETS will cease any further production of
Certificates, and the Generator will be inaccessible. Termination of a
Generator does not affect Certificates previously issued in accordance
with the M-RETS Terms of Use and Operating Procedures.

### Section 4.3.12: Changing the Organization to which the Generator is Associated

If the Generator Owner or Responsible Party ("Transferor") wants to
change the Organization to which a Generating Unit is associated, they
can do so by requesting the change from M-RETS in writing or via email.

The Transferor must confirm the following:

a.  The Organization Name and Organization I.D. of the Transferor.

b.  The Generator Name and M-RETS I.D.

c.  The effective date of the change and the last vintage that should be
    issued to the Transferor.

> The Transferee must confirm the following:

a.  The Organization Name and Organization I.D.

b.  The Generator Name and M-RETS I.D.

c.  The Account Name and Account I.D. to which the Generator will
    initially issue Certificates upon competition of the change.

d.  The effective date of the change and the first vintage that should
    be issued to the Transferee.

e.  Any changes to the static Generator data (e.g. new Reporting Entity,
    Eligibilities).

Certificates from generation that occurred up to the day the
Organization change takes effect will be issued into the Organization
that the Generating Unit was associated with at the time the generation
occurred.

> *For example, if the Generator owner changes the Organization to which
> a given Generating Unit is associated with from Organization A to
> Organization B, and the change is effective on March 1, then the
> Certificates from generation that occurred prior to March 1, will be
> deposited into Organization A (even though the date of Certificate
> deposit will be after March 1, because of the lag time between
> generation occurrence and Certificate issuance.)*

There cannot be any lapse in time where the Generator is not associated
with an M-RETS Organization. If there is a period when the Generator is
not associated with an M-RETS Organization, M-RETS will treat this as an
Inactivation/Reactivation of the Generator instead of a change of
Organization.

Any fractional remainder MWhs (i.e. any kWh) will transfer to the new
owner of the Generator.

### Section 4.3.13: Assignment of Rights of Registration -- Designation of Responsible Party

The owner of a Generating Unit or Responsible Party may assign the right
to register the Generating Unit(s) in M-RETS to an M-RETS Organization
for the purposes of allowing that party the ability to control and
manage the disposition of any M-RETS Certificates resulting from the
operation of the Generating Unit(s). This assignment of registration
rights will give the designated Organization full and sole management
and authority over the transactions and activities related to the
Generating Unit within M-RETS. For the purposes of M-RETS, this party is
the Responsible Party for that Generating Unit.

M-RETS will require both parties to confirm an assignment of
registration rights and the date the assignment will be effective, and
the termination date if applicable.

### Section 4.3.14: Termination of Rights of Registration

The Generator Owner or the Responsible Party may terminate the Rights of
Registration subject to confirmation by M-RETS that both the Generator
Owner and Responsible Party agree to the termination. The User will file
the Generating Unit Termination form with M-RETS. The form specifies who
the new Responsible Party with the Rights of Registration is and the
date the change in registration will occur. Termination of Rights of
Registration has the effect of deregistering the Generating Unit from
M-RETS. Thus, no new Certificates will be issued from that generating
upon the effective date of the termination. *See* Section 4.3.12:
Changing the Organization to which the Generator is Associated for
additional information.

### Section 4.3.15: Changing Rights of Registration

When changing the Rights of Registration, the disposition of the
Certificates from that Generating Unit will follow the rules in Section
4.3.13: Assignment of Rights of Registration -- Designation of
Responsible Party. This function applies equally to the Generator Owner
or to a Responsible Party, meaning that the Responsible Party can change
the Rights of Registration to another party.

When changing the Rights of Registration, M-RETS will confirm that both
parties (the Generator Owner or current Responsible Party and the new
Responsible Party) agree to the change. If the Generator Owner or
Responsible Party wants to change the Organization to which a Generating
Unit is associated, they can do so by filing the Generating Unit
Transfer Form with M-RETS. The form specifies who the new Responsible
Party with the Rights of Registration is, and the date the change in
registration will occur. There cannot be any lapse in time where the
Generating Unit is not associated with an M-RETS Organization. If there
is a period when the Generating Unit is not associated with an M-RETS
Organization, M-RETS will treat this as a deregistration/re-registration
of the Generating Unit.

In addition, the User must review---and update if necessary---the basic
Generator Registration data when the Right of Registration is changed
from one party to another.
