Section 4.7: Programs
---------------------

The Program feature helps regulators, regulated entities, and
organizations with their own internal programs to more efficiently
manage the complexity of various programs. The Program feature allows
regulators as well as Organizations the opportunity to set up rulesets
that prevent retirements of Certificates outside the parameters set to a
specified Retirement Account.

Users may create rules around any subset or all the following attribute
areas, however, the System does not require a ruleset to utilize this
feature nor is this feature restricted to compliance programs:

1.  Vintage Start \[requires Certificate vintage to be within a certain
    date\]

2.  Vintage End \[requires Certificate vintage to be within a certain
    date\]

3.  Eligibilities \[requires Certificates to have AT LEAST one of the
    selected eligibilities\]

4.  Generator Location \[Generator must originate in one of the selected
    state/provinces\]

5.  Fuel Types \[Certificates must meet AT LEAST one fuel type\]

6.  Generators \[Certificates must come from AT LEAST one of the
    selected Generators\]

### 

### Section 4.7.1: Establishing a Program

Users can create a Program for internal use or can invite other M-RETS
Organizations to participate.

Any User within a General Account Subscription Organization that has
Program manage permissions can create an Internal Program. Only
Organizations that create Internal Programs can use and view the
Program. Any Account created as part of the Internal Program will be
subject to the associated Program Ruleset.

Any User within a General Account Subscription Organization that has
Program manage permissions or a Program Administrator can create an
External Program. The Administrator of an External Program can invite an
unlimited number of other M-RETS Organizations to participate in a
Program. All participants will receive a notification inviting them to
participate in the Program. Prior to becoming active Program
participants, the invitee must accept the invitation.

A walk through guide to adding a Program may be found
[here](https://help.mrets.org/en/articles/2513477-adding-a-program).

### Section 4.7.2: Participating in a Program

Once an Organization accepts an invitation to participate in a Program,
the accepting Organization must create a new Retirement Account and link
the Account to the Program. As Certificates are retired into this
Account, they will automatically appear on both the Program
Administrator and the participant's Program dashboard. This dashboard is
tailored to only show relevant information for their Program.

If a User attempts to retire Certificates that do not match the
predetermined criteria of the Program, the System blocks the retirement.
This prevents the retirement of incorrect Certificates.

A walk through guide to participating in a Program may be found
[here](https://help.mrets.org/within-the-system/programs/participating-in-a-program).
