api-docs/getting-started.md, before:

# Getting Started

M-RETS API provides tools and resources that enable our users to complete many tasks on the tracking system platform.

This page describes what’s possible to build with our available tools and APIs and how to get the access and information that you need to get started.

We regularly update and improve the experience and resources available in the API docs. To stay informed of any updates, sign-up for our newsletter [here](https://www.mrets.org/api/).

## What can be done with the M-RETS API?

The M-RETS API provides nearly all of the functionality available through the platform's user interface. This includes but is not limited to:

* Retrieving your full inventory of active and retired RECs
* Creating and updating generators
* Submitting generation data and issuing RECs
* Completing an internal, external, export transaction
* Retiring certificates for voluntary or compliance purposes
* Participating in a program

## What is required to use the M-RETS API?

M-RETs requires that all API users be part of a registered organization with a General Subscription in good standing.

## How to get started

To gain access to our API, we recommend the following steps:

1. Users with a General Subscription can request access to the M-RETS sandbox by filling out [this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSebmAyf6cNc1GAcYASXcbU3vwHwHGG-jUNReQQdc0ii-k_Pwg/viewform). 
If you are not a current M-RETS user or have a different subscription type, reach out to apisupport@mrets.org to learn more about our API and discuss next steps.
2. We create test organizations for your team to use and send you Sandbox credentials. You are free to generate new API keys and test out workflows.
3. Find the documentation, libraries, code examples, and other resources that you need to make your first successful request.

## Resources

### Swagger Docs

Swagger Docs are available for all M-RETS API endpoints.

[Swagger 2.0](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/apipie.json?type=swagger)

### Postman Files

Select Postman files can be downloaded for many API endpoints.

To use these Postman collections, the `API_TOKEN` environment variable should be set to your sandbox api token.

* [Accounts](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/postman-collections/Accounts.postman_collection.json)
* [Certificate Quantities](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/postman-collections/Certificate-Quantities.postman_collection.json)
* [Fuel Sources](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/postman-collections/Fuel-Sources.postman_collection.json)
* [Generation Entry](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/postman-collections/Generation-Entry.postman_collection.json)
* [Generator Fuel](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/postman-collections/Generator-Fuel.postman_collection.json)
* [Generators](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/postman-collections/Generators.postman_collection.json)
* [Organizations](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/postman-collections/Organizations.postman_collection.json)
* [Recurring Transfer](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/postman-collections/Recurring-Transfer.postman_collection.json)
* [Retirement Option](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/postman-collections/Retirement-Option.postman_collection.json)
* [Transaction Details](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/postman-collections/Transaction-Details.postman_collection.json)
* [User Transactions](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/postman-collections/User-Transactions.postman_collection.json)

### Data Dictionaries

Our data dictionaries can be found embedded in the documentation for our individual endpoints or can be downloaded as part of the M-RETS Operating Procedures.

### Newsletter

Subscribe to our API newsletter for updates on the latest developments related to our API. Sign-up [here](https://www.mrets.org/api/).

Commit message:

Update getting-started.md (#81)
Removed reference of "account" re: General Subscription. Updated current available resources and communication channels. Clarified current eligibility requirements for Sandbox access

api-docs/getting-started.md, after:

# Getting Started

M-RETS API provides tools and resources that enable our users to complete many tasks on the tracking system platform.

This page describes what’s possible to build with our available tools and APIs and how to get the access and information that you need to get started.

We regularly update and improve the experience and resources available in the API docs. To stay informed of any updates, sign-up for our newsletter [here](https://www.mrets.org/api/).

## What can be done with the M-RETS API?

The M-RETS API provides nearly all of the functionality available through the platform's user interface. This includes but is not limited to:

* Retrieving your full inventory of active and retired RECs
* Creating and updating generators
* Submitting generation data and issuing RECs
* Completing an internal, external, export transaction
* Retiring certificates for voluntary or compliance purposes
* Participating in a program

## What is required to use the M-RETS API?

M-RETS requires that all API users and Sandbox participants be part of a registered organization with a General Subscription in good standing.


## How to get started

If you are interested in testing and utilizing M-RETS API but do not currently have a General Subscription in M-RETS, please email systemadmin@mrets.org to discuss registration options or changes. 

If you have a General Subscription in M-RETS and would like to gain access to our API, we recommend the following steps:

1. Users with a General Subscription can request access to the M-RETS sandbox by filling out [this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSebmAyf6cNc1GAcYASXcbU3vwHwHGG-jUNReQQdc0ii-k_Pwg/viewform). 
If you are not a current M-RETS user or have a different subscription type, reach out to apisupport@mrets.org to learn more about our API and discuss next steps.
2. We create test organizations for your team to use and send you Sandbox credentials. You are free to generate new API keys and test out workflows.
3. Find the documentation, libraries, code examples, and other resources that you need to make your first successful request.



## Resources

### Swagger Docs

Swagger Docs are available for all M-RETS API endpoints.

[Swagger 2.0](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/apipie.json?type=swagger)

### Postman Files

Select Postman files can be downloaded for many API endpoints.

To use these Postman collections, the `API_TOKEN` environment variable should be set to your sandbox api token.

* [Accounts](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/postman-collections/Accounts.postman_collection.json)
* [Certificate Quantities](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/postman-collections/Certificate-Quantities.postman_collection.json)
* [Fuel Sources](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/postman-collections/Fuel-Sources.postman_collection.json)
* [Generation Entry](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/postman-collections/Generation-Entry.postman_collection.json)
* [Generator Fuel](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/postman-collections/Generator-Fuel.postman_collection.json)
* [Generators](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/postman-collections/Generators.postman_collection.json)
* [Organizations](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/postman-collections/Organizations.postman_collection.json)
* [Recurring Transfer](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/postman-collections/Recurring-Transfer.postman_collection.json)
* [Retirement Option](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/postman-collections/Retirement-Option.postman_collection.json)
* [Transaction Details](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/postman-collections/Transaction-Details.postman_collection.json)
* [User Transactions](https://api-sandbox.mrets.org/postman-collections/User-Transactions.postman_collection.json)

### Data Dictionaries

Our data dictionaries can be found embedded in the documentation for our individual endpoints or can be downloaded as part of the M-RETS Operating Procedures.

### Newsletter

Subscribe to our API newsletter for updates on the latest developments related to our API. Sign-up [here](https://www.mrets.org/api/).
