### Section 4.4.1: Generation Upload Process

An IRE or User must upload generation through the M-RETS portal. Users may upload all their generation for the whole month or in partial months as long as a whole month is uploaded. During the upload process, users must provide the Generator, vintage, Dth, and a complete allocation of Dth generated. During the upload, Users must declare whether the generation is 100% from renewable sources, or if the Generator used non-renewable sources.

Certificates created by Generators that Self-report (i.e. Generators that do not use an IRE) must also submit with the generation information an invoice, receipt, or other official documents that identify the Dth of gas injected.[[2]](#_ftn2) M-RETS reserves the right to reject the Generators documentation if there is any reason to suspect the documentation provided is altered, fraudulent, or suspicious. M-RETS also reserves the right to confirm with the entity that issues the document(s) that they are legitimate and not altered in any way. M-RETS may---but is not required to--- contact the Generator Owner prior to confirming with the entity. However, M-RETS will try to work out any issues with the Generator Owner prior to confirming the validity of the documentation with the issuing entity.  

M-RETS will also accept generation data via the M-RETS API directly from the Injection Point. Data received through an automated process does not require the same level of documentation as Self-Reporting Generators. Generators should work with M-RETS during the registration process to coordinate access to the API as well as connecting the proper points of contact between the common carrier pipeline or local distribution system operator and M-RETS.
