## Section 4.5: Renewable Thermal Certificates (RTCs)

### Section 4.5.1: Certificate Creation

Small generators (1 to 150 Dth/year) have up to one year from the generation end date to upload generation. Large generators (>150 Dth/year) have 60 days from the generation end date to upload generation. This applies regardless of whether the generator is self-reporting or uses a IRE. M-RETS must approve any generation outside of these ranges.

All generation data submitted to M-RETS will undergo an automatic validation process. The process includes an automated verification process that reviews the feasibility of the generation amount, ensures there are no overlapping generation entries, and that there are no lapses in generation information.

M-RETS only issues Certificates in whole numbers. A Certificate created and tracked within M-RETS represents all renewable attributes from one Dth of renewable generation. M-RETS Certificates are "Whole Certificates," meaning that none of the renewable and/or Environmental Attributes may be split off from the Certificate while it is in circulation in the M-RETS system.

Depending on user settings, the system will notify the user via email that the generation has been posted. The generation posting will be marked "Issued" on the Generation Log.

Certificates in M-RETS do not have a specific expiration date. States and Provinces define the lifetime or expiration date for Certificates as applied to the programs they oversee. Therefore, all certificates in M-RETS are "bankable" i.e. M-RETS never forcibly removes or retires RTCs due to vintage. If a State or Province does not want to utilize the Program feature to prevent the retirement of RECs that no longer meets their vintage requirements, M-RETS can work with regulators to remove the eligibility flag from their jurisdiction for all unretired RECs in M-RETS that no longer meet specifically defined vintage requirements and maintain an eligibility flag for that jurisdiction.  

M-RETS will issue one electronic Certificate for each Dth of energy generated by those Generating Units registered with M-RETS. Certificates will be issued based on the number of whole Dths on the Generation Log on the day of Certificate creation. M-RETS will issue Certificates no more frequently than once per month per Generating Unit.

### Section 4.5.2: Certificate Data Fields

<ol>
  <li>Serial Number(s)</li>
  <li>Account</li>
  <li>ID</li>
  <li>Generator Feedstock Type</li>
  <li>Generator Resource Type</li>
  <li>Vintage Date</li>
  <li>Location</li>
  <li>Quantity (in Dth)</li>
  <li>Eligibilities (if applicable)</li>
  <li>Carbon Intensity (if applicable)</li>
  </ol>

### Section 4.5.3: Certificate Retirement

Certificate Retirement is an action taken by the User to remove a Certificate from circulation. M-RETS is not responsible for ensuring that Users Retire Certificates for voluntary or compliance purposes. M-RETS requires all Users to initiate and complete all retirements. M-RETS maintains an integrated online help guide that Users can access after logging into the System and clicking on the button labeled "Help" in the lower-right corner of the screen.

### Section 4.5.4: Voluntary Retirement Types

#### Beneficial Ownership (BBO)

<ul>
  <li>Formal Definition: With respect to any Certificate, Beneficial Ownership Rights means any contractual or other right to direct or control the sale or other disposition of, or the Retirement of, such Certificate or (ii) any contractual or other right to receive the benefits of such Certificate or any proceeds from the sale or other disposition of such Certificate.</li>
  <li>M-RETS Uses: All retirements for the benefit of an individual owner for a general environmental reason (i.e. company purchasing RTCs to green their thermal operations). Within this Retirement type there are additional options in the "Reason" drop down box. One of the reasons is utility retirement on behalf of all customers. This Reason should be selected when a utility is looking to make a voluntary retirement that can be applied to all customers.<li>
  <li>An Additional Details field is provided to allow the User to provide specific information about the sale (i.e. customer name, retirement year) Note: Compliance or Green-e Voluntary programs should not use the Beneficial Ownership retirement type. All state compliance retirements should use the Compliance Retirement Type. Green-e Voluntary Retirements should use the Green-e Thermal Certified Voluntary Market Sale Retirement Type.</li>
  </ul>

#### Green-e Thermal Certified Voluntary Market Sale (GRN)/Green-e Gas Program

<ul>
  <li>M-RETS Uses: All Green-e Retirements. To retire Certificates to substantiate sales made in a given calendar year as "Green-e Energy certified", the party retiring Certificates must have a contract in place with Center for Resource Solutions to make Green-e Thermal certified sales in that year of sale.</li>
  </ul>

#### Corporate Renewable Claim

<ul>
  <li>M-RETS Uses: Corporations that want to make claims may use this retirement time. While similar to Beneficial Ownership, it is more explicit regarding the type of claim made by the holder of the certificate. This claim should only be used when the Organization retiring Certificates is the same Organization making use of the claim. If the claim is intended for a different party, the correct selection would be Beneficial Ownership while including the name and other relevant information in the notes.</li>
  </ul>

#### Green Gas Program

<ul>
  <li>M-RETS Uses: Utility Green Gas and/or Utility Renewable Natural Gas Programs. Note: "Green-e Energy Certified" Utility Green Pricing Program Retirements should use the Green-e Energy Certified Voluntary Market Sale Retirement Reason. </li>
  </ul>

### Section 4.5.5: Compliance Retirement Types

#### State-Regulated Utility Renewable Portfolio Standard / Provincial Utility Portfolio Standard (Compliance) (RPS)

<ul>
  <li>M-RETS Uses: State-Regulated Utility Renewable Portfolio Standard/Provincial Utility Portfolio Standard (RPS) retirements.</li>
  </ul>


*Low Carbon Fuel Standard*

<ul>
  <li>M-RETS Uses: This should be selected only if the generation subject to this claim will be used for a Low Carbon Fuel Standard Claim. The use of this retirement type is subject to the rules and regulations of any state, federal, or provincial low carbon fuel standard program.</li>
  </ul>

*Renewable Fuel Standard*

<ul>
  <li>M-RETS Uses: This should be selected only if the Certificates subject to this claim will be used for the United States Environmental Protection Agency Renewable Fuel Standard. Use of this retirement type is subject to official rules and regulations of the Renewable Fuel Standard.</li>
  </ul>

*Both Low Carbon Fuel Standard and Renewable Fuel Standard*

<ul>
  <li>M-RETS Uses: This should be selected only if the Certificates subject to this claim will be used for the United States Environmental Protection Agency Renewable Fuel Standard and the Low Carbon Fuel Standard. Use of this retirement type is subject to official rules and regulations of the Renewable Fuel Standard. It is most often the case that Both will be selected as these attributes are frequently stacked.</li>
  </ul>

### Section 4.5.6: Forced Retirement of Certificates

M-RETS and/or appropriate regulator(s) shall have sole discretion to retire any Active Certificates for mistake, fraud or other reasonable cause consistent with these Operating Procedures, the Terms of Use and/or the purposes of the M-RETS platform.

### Section 4.5.7: Withdrawing Certificates

Certificate Withdrawal is an action taken by the User to remove a Certificate from M-RETS to use the Generation for LCFS, RINS, or another Compliance/Voluntary program. M-RETS is not responsible for ensuring that Users Withdraw Certificates for voluntary or compliance purposes. M-RETS requires all Users to initiate and complete all withdrawals. M-RETS maintains an integrated online help guide that Users can access after logging into the System and clicking on the button labeled "Help" in the lower-right corner of the screen.
