### Section 4.5.1: Certificate Creation

All generators have 60 days from the generation end date to upload generation. This applies regardless of whether the generator is self-reporting or uses a IRE. M-RETS must approve any generation outside of these ranges.

All generation data submitted to M-RETS will undergo an automatic validation process. The process includes an automated verification process that reviews the feasibility of the generation amount, ensures there are no overlapping generation entries, and that there are no lapses in generation information.

M-RETS only issues Certificates in whole numbers. A Certificate created and tracked within M-RETS represents all renewable attributes from one Dth of renewable generation. M-RETS Certificates are "Whole Certificates," meaning that none of the renewable and/or Environmental Attributes may be split off from the Certificate while it is in circulation in the M-RETS system.

Depending on user settings, the system will notify the user via email that the generation has been posted. The generation posting will be marked "Issued" on the Generation Log.

Certificates in M-RETS do not have a specific expiration date. States and Provinces define the lifetime or expiration date for Certificates as applied to the programs they oversee. Therefore, all certificates in M-RETS are "bankable" i.e. M-RETS never forcibly removes or retires RTCs due to vintage. If a State or Province does not want to utilize the Program feature to prevent the retirement of RECs that no longer meets their vintage requirements, M-RETS can work with regulators to remove the eligibility flag from their jurisdiction for all unretired RECs in M-RETS that no longer meet specifically defined vintage requirements and maintain an eligibility flag for that jurisdiction.  

M-RETS will issue one electronic Certificate for each Dth of energy generated by those Generating Units registered with M-RETS. Certificates will be issued based on the number of whole Dths on the Generation Log on the day of Certificate creation. M-RETS will issue Certificates no more frequently than once per month per Generating Unit.
