### Section 4.4.2: Measurement of Generation and Adjustments (Qualified & Non-Qualified Generation)

For Generating Units that interconnect to a local gas distribution system M-RETS will measure the output from each Generating Unit at the point of interconnection between the Generating Unit and the local gas distribution system. If the Generating Unit interconnects to the common carrier interstate pipeline transportation system, M-RETS will measure the output from each Generating Unit at the meter located at the injection point.

Generators must report 100% of the gas injected into the system from the Generator at the injection point, even if the gas will not be tracked in M-RETS. This ensures that M-RETS can serve as a central repository for programs, including those not affiliated with M-RETS, to ensure against double-counting. M-RETS will not create certificates for the generation entered and designated as not being tracked on M-RETS. Generation that does not qualify for certificate issuance is called Non-Qualified Generation. Non-Qualified Generation includes Generation intended for a program that does not recognize M-RETS or is not considered renewable (e.g., non-renewable additives). Qualified Generation is any generation that qualifies for certificate issuance.

While entering generation information into the user interface, IRE's or Self-Reporting Generators must designate the exact number of certificates or the percentage of the injected gas sought for certificate generation on M-RETS. For example, if a Generator injects 100 Dth at the interconnection through the reporting period the IRE or Self-Reporting Generator must report 100 Dth. If the Self-Reporting Generator or IRE plans to sell 50 Dth into M-RETS and 50 Dth into the EPA RFS Program which is not currently recognized by the EPA as a nominated tracking system, M-RETS will only Issue 50 Dth. However, the system will maintain a record that 100 Dth were injected and will list to anyone with a Regulator/Program Administrator Account where the Dth went according to the information provided by the IRE or Self-Reporting Generator. In this example, it would show that the remaining 50 Dth as Non-Qualified Generation went to the RFS.

M-RETS will require RNG generators to utilize a revenue quality meter. However, M-RETS will consider registering RNG projects that lack a revenue quality meter at the request of the participant. If M-RETS does allow for the registration of projects with a non-revenue quality meter that will be clearly denoted on the Public Generator Report and/or on the actual certificate. 
